\section{Formal Specification in Sail}
\label{sect:priv-sail-model}

This version of the document includes selected sections of the formal
description of privileged architecture as specified in the Sail ISA
description language\cite{sail-site}.  This description is generated
directly from the Sail sources of the RISC-V model, available at
\url{https://github.com/rems-project/sail-riscv}.  More information on
Sail is provided in the Sail manual provided with the Sail
distribution at \url{https://github.com/rems-project/sail}.

The Sail model of RISC-V currently implements the IMAC subset of
instructions for RV32 and RV64, the user, supervisor and machine
privilege levels, and the Sv32, Sv39 and Sv48 address translation
modes.  It passes the \texttt{riscv-tests} test suite, the
\texttt{riscv-compliance} suite, and is capable of booting Linux and
seL4.  The model currently does not model the floating point
extensions, event and performance counters, PMP/PMA, and the
hypervisor mode.

Some selected portions of the Sail model of the privileged
architecture are included in an appendix of this volume on
page~\pageref{chap:priv-sail-model}, and include model definitions
that were omitted from the unprivileged specification volume.  The
selected portions are not intended to be complete, but instead to
highlight formalizations of some of the more involved aspects of the
ISA.  The complete Sail specification is available at the above url.
It includes a reading guide as well as a guide to extending the model.
